How to Tap into Your Most Creative 20 Percent

1. Identify Your 20 Percent Spike

The 20 Percent Spike Questionnaire

1. What sort of thing really excites you? What have you heard him be most passionate about? [Do not confine this to work-related matters.]  
2. Imagine that he becomes famous in his lifetime. What possible things might he become celebrated for?  
3. What is the single most distinctive thing about him, that defines his individuality? What is most difficult and idiosyncratic about him?  
4. What do you think he would be happiest and most fulfilled doing?  
5. What one thing is he best at, and better at than anyone else you know?
6. What occupation or role do you think he is best suited to?   
7. Think imaginatively about a different arena or activity that he might be excellent at, preferably far removed from his current job. Be creative and surprising, perhaps not entirely serious.   
8. If he were to start a new venture that becomes extraordinarily successful, what might that new enterprise be? Use your imagination.

2. How to Work on Your 20 Percent Spike

Train, develop and hone your 20 percent spike. Use it repeatedly. Find situations where you can exercise your spike. Practice daily. Read everything relevant. Talk to the experts and observe how they deal with difficulties. Feed your passion. Accentuate your own distinctive approach and cultivate your unique style. Practice in real life, practice in your imagination. Assign yourself tasks. Imagine there’s an Olympic competition in your spike, and what you must do to win the gold medal. Then do it.

Delegate 80% of the remaining things you don't excel. Develop partnership.

Notes

Adhere Strictly to the 80/20 Frugality Principle
Undertake only those activities that yield a very high return on your capital and efforts. If a task has a low return, you should not perform it. But if your customers insist on a bundled purchase, outsource that task to another company.
80/20 individuals are capable of establishing successful new ventures because they:

Are ultra selective in the activities they undertake - they stick to what is super profitable and super simple.
Establish ties with the right companies
