Who is an Infopreneur?

Infopreneur is defined as a person who gathers, organizes and disseminates information as a business venture. It combines the words 'information' and 'entrepreneur'. 

According to the dictionary, Entreprenur is defined as : A person who organizes and operates a business by taking on greater than normal financial risks. 

You don't have to take on greater than normal financial risks. I will show you how to minimize the risk and maximize your chances for success in this course.

Why become an Infopreneur?

Infopreneur sells information product. An information product is information that is packaged in a way that can be sold and delivered over and over again.

Most successful infopreneurs have built businesses arount 'how-to' information. It teaches others how to do something or how to do something efficiently.

There is a lot of demand for 'How-to' knowledge that you have gained through real world experience. You have made costly mistakes to gain valuable experiential knowledge. You can help others avoid the costly mistakes. You can package your 'know-how' and sell them to your customers directly. 

- How to play a piano
- How to develop a real estate
- How to use a word processor
- How to play tennis
- How to coach a basket ball team

The list is only limited by your imagination. Don't think that your knowledge is not valuable. Let the market decide whether they are willing to pay and how much. If done right, you can build a very profitable business.

How do you capture the 'how-to' information?

You can write ebooks using any word processor. You can create audios and videos with inexpensive home equipment and software you can buy at your local electronics store. You create the information product once and then you get paid for that work over and over again; often, for years. 

If you spend 100 hours developing the product. You can sell copies of that product to thousands of people every year for the next 10 years! You get paid for those 100 hours of effort, over and over again. 

You can sell your digital products over the Internet to people all over the world. They can order online with their credit card and get access to a digital version of the product. They can download and read it on their computer or print it out themselves. They can view videos online, in their web browser. 

This process can all happen automatically, without you having to lift a finger. When you're selling digital information products online, you can build a business that runs mostly on auto-pilot and create a passive revenue stream that feeds your bank account while you're free to focus on other things.

Why should they buy when there is free information?

Information overload can overwhelm and confuse people. They become paralyzed, unable to take any action to achieve their goals. They want actionable information. They are eager to learn from other successful people who have been there and done that. It helps them get a better result without the frustrating trial and error approach. They want to acquire skills quickly so that they can apply those skills and make money.

You can filter and package information in an actionable way. Share secrets to your success and help others acquire skills quickly. Paid products have higher quality than free information. 

You can capture all your hard-earned real life knowledge of building and running a successful business in a series of 'how-to' manuals and videos. People who want to start their own business like yours can save themselves a lot of time, money and hassle by buying your products to learn what you've already figured out. 

You can sell information products based on your business development experience. You can create digital information products that teach others how to do the very same thing; in a fraction of the time and without all of the trail and error you had to go through along the way. Your customers save time, money and hassle and they will also achieve higher-quality results.

One of the big mistakes people make is thinking that whatever they know is actually a common knowledge. So they think it's not worth anything. It's human nature. Once you know something, it's easy to assume that everyone else knows it.

This mistaken belief prevents many would-be infopreneurs from even getting started. They might have a million-dollar information business locked-up in their brain, but because they can't understand why someone else would actually value that information and pay for it, they don't even try.

Why would someone buy from you ?

Why would someone pay for what I know? is a great question. Let me ask you : Why do you buy information products? You've probably purchased a 'how-to' product at some point in your life, right? Why did you buy it?

You likely bought it because the information was going to save you time, money or hassle. That's exactly why people would pay good money for what you know.

You've probably spent years gaining your knowledge and experience. Don't you think someone could save themselves a lot of time, money or hassle learning what you already know? Couldn't you help them avoid a lot of costly mistakes? Couldn't you make it easier for them to accomplish whatever they're trying to accomplish? Of course you could.

Are you now ready to learn how to build a profitable Infopreneurial business? Ok. Let's get started.

The essential ingredients of a business are:

- Customer
- Product
- Profit

No profit   --> Non-Profit
No product  --> Scam
No customer --> Bailout (or Facebook)

No one is going to give you a bailout. You are not Mark Suckerberg. We all know where scammers end up. You can start your own non-profit and hug trees after you become rich.

The sequence is important, you have to start with the customer first. You have to find out their needs and pain by talking to them. Then you focus on creating a quality product that your customers are willing to buy that turns a healthy profit for your business. 
 
Do not develop a product and then look for a customer later. This is a receipe for failure.

Understanding the Infopreneur Business Model

The Infopreneur Business Model minimizes the risk and maximizes your chances for success. It also provides you a way to overcome being overwhelmed by daunting tasks in starting a digital information business.

This is an extremely simple business model. It's very important to start with the end in mind. The fundamentals are very important. So we'll provide you with a basic blueprint to follow and we will walk you step-by-step through the business development process. We will show you what to do first, next and so-on.

We'll highlight the key principles and concepts you'll need to embrace. We'll also help you avoid the most common mistakes. This is based on lessons learned from other successful infopreneurs.

What is the difference between an infopreneur and an author?

They both create and sell content. But there are huge advantages you can enjoy when you embrace the infopreneurial approach. 

There's a reason that most infopreneurs make more money than most authors. It's because the underlying approach is very different and far more effective due to a handful of powerful concepts.

Powerful Concept #1 : Infopreneurs Establish Direct Connections

The most important concept is related to the nature of the relationship with the customer. Traditional authors don't have a clue about who's buying their books. When they sell their books through bookstores or through a typical online retailer, they know how many books are sold but they don't know who the actual customers are. Of course, the retailer knows. But they aren't about to share customer information with the author.

And what about prospects or people who are interested but not quite ready to buy yet? Even the typical retailer won't have that information, let alone the author.

With the infopreneurial approach, however, you establish a direct connection with both your customers and your prospects. You have their contact information and you can send them an email, which is something a traditional author cannot do. Being able to communicate with your prospects and customers directly is a huge win. This direct connection is the cornerstone of the infopreneurial approach.

Why? The answer leads to the next powerful concept. The concept of selling to your customers again and again, over time.

Powerful Concept #2 : Infopreneurs Drive Repeat Sales Over Time

An author has to think in terms of one-time sales. They write a book and some anonymous people buy it and that's it. Sure, if they're aware of it, some of these people may also buy the author's next book when it becomes available. But it's a hit-and-miss proposition, one that the author has relatively little control over.

An infopreneur on the other hand has a direct connection to their customers. They know who their customers are and they can contact them. As a result, an infopreneur can actively promote and sell additional information products to those same customers, over time.

This is very powerful. It makes possible another defining concept of the infopreneurial approach. The concept of being able to offer information that is highly specialized or information that may only appeal to a relatively small number of people.

Powerful Concept #3 : Infopreneurs Offer Specialized Information

Because authors have to think in terms of one-time sales, they also have to think about appealing to the masses. After all, they can't sell to the same customer over and over again, so they need a lot of those one-time sales in order to make any money. Traditional authors can never generate enough one-time sales for specialized topics to make it worthwhile.

But to an infopreneur, highly-specialized topics have a ton of potential. While a traditional author has to go broad, shooting for as many of those one-time sales as possible, an infopreneur can go deep. An infopreneur can sell more and deeper information, to a relatively small base of customers, over time.

This leads to the next infopreneurial power concept. The concept of giving prospects and customers the opportunity to stair-step their way through increasing levels of engagement and investment.

Powerful Concept #4 : Infopreneurs Offer Multiple Options and Steps

For a traditional author, there's usually only one step, buying a book. What if you're not quite ready to buy that book, yet? That's too bad and you'll have come back when you are ready. And if you do buy the book, what then? You've spent a few dollars to get the basic information in the book, but what if you want more? What if you want deeper explanations? What if you want expanded information in certain areas? What if you want someone to show you exactly how to do whatever it is, step by step? And what if you're willing to pay more money to get that deeper information?

Well, that's just too bad because the traditional author only has that one level of engagement and investment, buying the book, for a few bucks.

An infopreneur on the other hand, understands that people have different wants and needs at different times and they stair-step their informational offerings accordingly. For prospects who are interested in the topic but not quite ready to buy, the infopreneur may offer a free email newsletter or a free downloadable report. This acts as a sort of 'sample' or a way for the prospect to get engaged with the infopreneur and get comfortable with their offerings, but without spending any money yet.

Then, the infopreneur may offer them a $10 basic how-to guide or a relatively inexpensive online video tutorial. From here, the customer may be able to buy a more expensive series of videos that goes beyond the basics and provides more in-depth training. Or, they might subscribe to the infopreneur's membership site, where they get online access to all the latest and greatest information for a monthly fee.

The point is, an infopreneur typically has a range of options at different price-points. Because many of their customers will want more or deeper information over time and they'll be willing to pay more for it.

Speaking of options, another extremely important infopreneurial power concept has to do with the various ways in which information can be captured, delivered and consumed.

Powerful Concept #5 : Infopreneurs Leverage Multiple Form-Factors

There is only one way for an author to deliver their information, through a book. Even if it's a digital book, it's still a book. It's something the author has to write and something the customer has to read. And, ot everybody prefers to read. Some people prefer to learn by listening, while others prefer to lrearn by watching. And, for conveying certain types of how-to information, video and audio are just far more effective than the written word.

So, while an author is limited to the written word, delivered in the form of a book, an infopreneur can leverage a variety of form-factors, sometimes in combination, again, giving their customers a range of options and price-points along the way.

By now, it's clear that being an infopreneur is very different from being an author. Let's re-cap the major differences:

* Authors don't know who their customers are. Infopreneurs have a direct connection to their customers and prospects.
* Authors typically sell to their customers one time. Infopreneurs can sell to their customers again and again, over time.
* Authors appeal to the masses, while an infopreneur can be very successful in a highly-specialized niche.
* Authors have one, relatively low-dollar option, the book. Infopreneurs will have a wide range of options and price-points.
* Authors are limited to the written word. Infopreneurs can also leverage audio and video formats to deliver their information.

To illustrate the significance of these differences, let's compare the two approaches side-by-side in a real-world-type scenario.

Comparing the Two Approaches Side-by-Side

Jack wants to generate some passive income by teaching others how to start and run a plumbing business like he did.

Jack probably wouldn't have much luck with traditional publishers because they're looking to sell a lot of books and the potential audience for this topic would be very limited. But he could self-publish. He could publish an ebook through some of the online bookstores. With this approach, he might eventually be able to sell, on average, 40 ebooks a month, priced $10. In his first year as a self-published ebook author, Jack sells a total of 500 ebooks. He generates $5,000 in total sales.

Not bad at all. But let's explore the infopreneurial approach and see just how much money Jack could be leaving on the table.

As an infopreneur, Jack engages with his prospects and customers directly, online, through his own little website. On this website, prospects who aren't yet ready to buy can get Jack's free report, 'The Top 10 Mistakes New Plumbers Make and How to Avoid Them' by just providing their name and email address.

Through this free report and the follow-up emails that Jack periodically sends, prospects get to sample his expertise and credibility, making them much more inclined to buy his ebook. In fact, by offering this free little 'sampling' mechanism to those who aren't quite ready to buy, Jack sells 15% more people his ebook, 'How to Start and Run a Successful Plumbing Business' priced at $10.

But buying the ebook is not the end. Jack, the infopreneur knows that a number of the people who buy and read his ebook will want more. He knows that those readers who actually do start their own plumbing businesses will want more help along the way. More information, more advice, tips, tricks, things to watch out for, encouragement and even some inspiration.

So, Jack has a 'members only' area on his website where, once a month, he posts his latest tips, tricks and nuggets of wisdom and guidance. Readers of his ebook can get access to this 'members only' area for just $19 a month which, for someone who is just starting a business is a small price to pay for access to someone who's already 'been there and done that'. As a result, over 20% of Jack's ebook buyers end-up subscribing to his 'members only' area.

Putting it all together, at the end of his first year as an infopreneur, Jack has sold 500 ebooks and 120 monthly subscriptions to his membership site. He has generated over $20,000 in sales along the way, four times more than he would have made as just an ebook author.

And, for Jack the infopreneur, it doesn't stop there. Because he has direct connection with his customers, he can continue to offer them more information, deeper information, more options and more ways to engage with him.

For example, he might offer his customers another 'how to' guide. This guide could offer much deeper information about a specific aspect of the plumbing business, maybe something like, 'How to Market Your Plumbing Business Without Spending Any Money on Advertising'. Because the information is deeper and even more specific, he might charge $20 - $30 for this type of guide.

As another example, Jack can offer a higher-level members-only subscription where, for another $10 a month, subscribers can interact with Jack directly in a monthly webinar or a conference call.

Infopreneurs Build a Valuable Customer Base

The point is that Jack isn't just making a one-time sales of an ebook. As an infopreneur, Jack is creating a customer base that his hungry for his expertise and willing to buy from him again and again, over a long period of time. In fact, in just a couple of years it's entirely possible that Jack could be making more money from his little information business than he makes from his plumbing business, with much less manual effort and direct involvement.

In this example, you will have notificed that while the infopreneurial approach is far more profitable and effective, there's a bit more to it than just uploading an ebook to an online bookstore. After all, as an infopreneur, you're essentially building a little online business. But the work involved is not at all difficult. Information businesses are very simple and straightforward to set up. You just have to know what to do and how to do it.

That's what the rest of this course is all about. In the next lessons, we'll cover the three most important steps toward becoming a successful infopreneur.

1. First, we'll help you select a topic and develop a product plan. You will evaluate your ideas in the evaluations and exercises to help you zero-in on the specific topic with the greatest odds of long-term success. And because it's so important to start with the end in mind, we'll help you develop the basic plan for your initial product line. So you're creating the right set of effective 'stair steps' and options from the very beginning.

2. Next, we'll help you get your website set up. It's not just any website. You are going to have an infopreneurial website. We will see the best practices for building an effective website. We will show you just how easy it can be to put together a winning recipe.

3. Finally, we'll talk about promoting your business and generating sales. We'll show you some very simple and effective ways to reach your target audience and get them to start engaging with you. We'll teach you about performance-based marketing and how to leverage affiliate marketing. We will show you how to stair-step your prospects and customers through greater levels of engagement and investment over time.

Module 2

Planning and Developing Your Product Offerings

It is crucial to plan before you start executing your idea. You want to avoid wasting lot of time and effort on ideas that has low probability for success. Your idea must have a market with customers that you can reach. It should also have the potential for repeat sales. Since information entrepreneurship is about selling to customers over and over again, it doesn't work well if customers don't need anything else after the first sale.

If you lose interest in the subject over time, you will fail to achieve the level of success that's possible.

In the beginning, take time to think things through and evaluate your options. This will make a huge difference in the level of success you'll eventually achieve. With a solid plan, you'll be able to more forward very quickly. But you'll move forward with the condidence of knowing that you've thought things through and you're not going to make any major mistakes. Nor will you have to go back to the drawing board at some point down the road.

This planning stage is a very straightforward process. It's just three steps that force you to think about the most important decisions you should make when you're just getting started in this business.

Revealing the Infopreneurial Blueprint

The easiest way to build a successful information business is to follow the footsteps of successful infopreneurs. Do what they did to build their businesses over time to maximize their potential. Avoid their mistakes. There is no need to reinvent the wheel by trial and error. 

There is a fundamental blueprint that underlies every successful infopreneur. It's unbelievably simple. The fundamental building blocks of their product offering has just three core elements:

Lead-capture offering
Front-end offering
Back-end offering

You don't need dozens of offerings to be very successful in this business. You can go a long way using a blueprint with just three elements. Of course, the critical thing is that they're the right three elements.

Understanding Lead-Capture Offerings

A lead is simply a prospect or someone who's interested, but not quite ready to buy yet. They're interested in the topic, interested in solving the problem or interested in learning whatever it is you might have to teach them. But they aren't yet convinced to the point of spending any money with you.

Of course, you don't want these people to just go away. You don't want to just cross your fingers, hoping they come back later. You want to capture them and engage with them. You want them to provide their name and email address, so you can cultivate them by sending them more information over time. The information you send will get them more comfortable with you and the value of your product offerings. Over time, they'll get comfortable enough to ultimately buy from you.

The general rule is that you have to give in order to get. So, a lead capture offer will generally give the prospect some piece of relevant and valuable information in exchange for their name and email address. This could be a free report or a free newsletter or a free intro video.

This free offer, along with any follow-up messages you send, provides the prospect or lead with an extremely low-risk way to sample you. This helps them to get a better feel for your expertise and credibility and better-understand how your information products can help them. And by offering this mechanism, you'll ultimately generate many more sales. This is the Internet equivalent of getting a sample Teriyaki chicken in the mall when you are walking-by the food court.

Understanding Front-End Offerings

A front-end offering is usually the most visible product for sale. It's the product you'll see most prominently displayed when you first look at any infopreneurial business. It's essentially the flagship product of the business. This is your signature product. It's called a front-end offering because it's the product that most people will buy first; meaning, it's at the front-end of the buying relationship.

It might be an ebook or a manual or a how-to video. It could be anything. A front-end offering is the thing that steps people up from just being interested prospects or leads, to becoming your customers or people who've given you money. This is like happy-hour special at restaurants. 

Front-end products are usually in the low to medium price-range. But it's more than just a name and email address, like with the free lead-capture offering.

As the element of the blueprint that starts the buying relationship, your front-end product offering is critically important. It makes everything else about your business go, for better or worse. So you want to make sure your front-end offering provides a very good value for the money.

Make the buyers of your front-end product feel like their money was very well spent without sharing everything you know. The satisfied front-end customers are more likely to buy your back-end offerings. That's where the real money is made.

Understanding Back-End Offerings

Often, a back-end product is only made available to buyers of the front-end product. So, unless you've actually purchased the front-end product, you many not ever see what's available behind the curtain.

A back-end offering allows customers to pay more to get more. More information. Deeper information. More specific information. More access to you. Back-end offering are usually more expensive than front-end offerings. They can include things like monthly members-only programs, access to training video libraries and so on.

Of course, only a small percentage of customers will want to pay more to get more. But that's ok. Because, it doesn't take very many buyers to generate a lot of money on the back-end. The most important concept in this course is : Most successful infopreneurs make their money on the back-end.

Jack Has the Sink Nailed...and Then Some

Jack has all three of the critical elements in the blueprint. 

1. Free Lead Capture
2. Front-end Offering
3. Back-end Offering

For lead-capture, he has his free report. A report you'll want to have even if you're just thinking about starting a plumbing business. From here, he offers his $10 ebook that provides a really solid overview of starting your own plumbing business as a front-end product. Then, if you want to go further and learn even more from jack, he offers his customers a members-only program for a monthly fee.

By having all three elements of the blueprint, Jack is in a much better position to maximize his potential as an infopreneur. But Jack is a great example for another very important reason. He not only has all the major blueprint elements, the lead capture, front-end and back-end; he has a very specific type of back-end offering. This type of back-end offering is very powerful.

The Power of Continuity on the Back-End

As a back-end offering, Jack has a continutity program. A continutity program is where customers agree to a series of regular purchases over time. In other words, customers agree to pay a monthly subscription fee. Jack's customers get access to a Member's Only section of his website, which he updates with new information on a monthly basis. They get charged automatically, every month, for as long as they want to continue to have that privileged access.

If it's appropriate for your particular topic, strive to have a continutity program as the back-end offering. Here's why...

Continuity programs are often easier for customers to buy. As consumers, we're accustomed to making monthly payments for things we use on a regular basis such as the gym, cable, cell phone etc. So customers understand the concept. It's just human nature that $10-20 a month is a lot more palatable than a larger one-time payment of say, $100 or $200.

Also since the monthly payments happen automatically, the customers doesn't have to do anything to keep buying from you. They can continue to get more information from you on a regular basis, without having to place another order.

For the infopreneur, continutity programs provide a steady and predictable stream of income. As you add subscribers, you're not only adding to your income this month, you're adding to your income every month, for as long as those subscribers stick around.

Infopreneurs with continuity programs on the back-end make three times more money from the same number of customers than those who don't. 

The Blueprint Addresses People in Two Stages

One reason the infopreneurial blueprint is simple yet powerful is that it addresses your audience in two fundamental groups: prospects and customers.

In most infopreneurial businesses there is a list of prospects and a list of customers. Each of these email lists is treated very differently, because the people on the lists are at different stages in their buying cycle. 

People on the prospect list aren't ready to buy yet. So you're going to communicate with them accordingly. You're going to send them information that helps them get more comfortable with you as an expert. Utimately, you want the prospects to purchase your front-end product and become a customer.

Once they move over to the customer list, assuming they're satisfied with their first purchase, you can now communicate with them in a different way. They already view you as a credible source of information, so your communication task with this list is to offer them even more information and ultimately get them to purchase your back-end offering.

The Blueprint Has Different Prices and Steps

Having offerings at different price points is a key aspect of being a successful infopreneur. This concept is baked right into the blueprint.

Your lead capture is usually free. Free from a monetary perspective as prospects do need to provide their contact information. Your front-end is going to be in the low to medium price range, usually between 10 and 50 dollars depending on the topic. And your back-end is going to be in the higher price range, anywhere from $100 for one-time purchase product to $10-50 a month for a continuity program. 

The key concept of 'stepping people up over time' is also baked into the blueprint.

You may message to a prospect for a period of days or weeks to get them to step-up from the free lead-capture offer to actually buying your front-end product. You may message to your front-end customers for weeks or months to get them to step-up to purchasing your back-end offering. And, as you add more back-end offerings over time, you may continue to message and sell to your customers for many years into the future.

The Blueprint Creates a Predictable Cash Flow Machine

Once you get this model in-place and working for you, it can become a very predictable cash flow machine with known inputs and outputs along the way.

Over time, you'll learn what percentage of leads turn into front-end customers. You'll learn what percentage of front-end customers turn into back-end buyers. You'll also learn how long each one of those processes takes. With this information, you'll be able to accurately predict how much money is going to come out of the back of the machine from what's being fed into the front of the machine.

You can also work the equation backwards. If you want to generate a certain amount of money a year from now, you'll be able to figure out how many leads you'll need to generate right now in order to make that happen.

You'll also be able to determine what it's worth to optimize the input-output ratios along the way. What if you could make some tweaks that would get 10 % more prospects to become front-end buyers? How much would that mean in increased back-end sales? What if you could make some tweaks and get 10% more front-end customers to become back-end buyers? How much more could you afford to spend promoting your front-end as a result?

The point is that even though this blueprint for planning your product offerings is extremely simple, it's incredibly powerful. And it's proven. This is basic blueprint for any successful infopreneurial business. So, don't try to reinvent the wheel. Thousands of other people have already figured out what works and you can avoid all of the trial and error they already went through by using the blueprint.

Identifying the Ideal Topic for You

You now have a solid understanding of the blueprint you want to use to build toward as you're planning your product offerings, let's move on to identifying the topic that's best for you to get started.

Why is carving-out a niche for yourself so important? When people buy 'how to' information, they want to buy it from an expert. They want to be confident that you know what you're talking about. Nearly anone can be a credible expert in something, as long as that 'something' is defined narrowly enough. Other benefits of carving out a niche include:

- Product creation is easier. You can rely on what's already in your brain without having to conduct additional research.

- You come across as being very different from the other solutions your prospects may have to choose from.

- You can command higher prices when your information is tailored to the needs of a very specific group. You can sell more back-end products, as there are fewer places for people to learn.

- Marketing is easier and more effective when you're targeting a very specific group, with a very specific set of needs, problems and desires. There's nothing more difficult than trying to be all things to all people. It's easier to write credible sales messages when you have a very specific persona in-mind. It's like you're speaking to one person that you know very well.

A good niche for most successful infopreneurs is a combination of three things: 

1. Access
2. Potential
3. Passion

Access : Reaching Groups of Prospects

Access is about reaching your potential buyers. Even the best products in the world cannot be sold if you cannot get them in-front of the buyers. Your prospects can't buy something they don't know about. Think about how accessible prospects will be when you're considering a potential topic.

How well do you know the ideal prospect in this niche?
Do you know they actually exist?
Do you have to rely solely on your imagination to conjure up this ideal prospect?

The more you know about the ideal prospect, the easier it's going to be for you to find them. 

You don't want to find them one at a time. You want to reach groups of them, all at once. 

Can you think of places where ideal prospects might gather?
Are there any websites, blogs, forums, chat rooms they might visit regularly?
Do they belong to certain associations or clubs?
Are there magazines or newsletters they might subscribe?
Are people looking for your type of information already? 

It's very important to go out and find them; it's fantastic if prospects are trying to find kind of information you are offering. You can use search engines to find out how many people are searching on your topic. [TUTORIAL IDEA]

Are there competitors already accessing this niche?

Don't be afraid of competition. If there are others selling info in this niche, it can mean that someone has already figured-out that prospects are accessible or actively looking.

Potential : Demand and Back-End Potential

Potential is about the ability to sell products and make money around the topic. Think about want instead of need. People always buy what they want. But people will only sometimes buy what they need. So be aware that it's easy to overestimate potential. 

Think about how many prospects in the niche fit this criteria. Are there a lot of them out there on the Internet? You don't need tens of thousands because you're going to sell to your customers over and over again, but you need more than a handful.

Do these prospects have money to spend?
Are they willing to spend money for the information they want? 
How much can they spend?

If the answer is no, you will end up selling less and at a lower price.

The real money is in the back-end. You want to think about whether prospects in this niche will be hungry for more.

Will some of them want to go further and learn more?
Will they be willing to pay more to get more?
Do they have ongoing educational needs that you can satisfy over time?

You are not looking to just sell a $10 ebook and that's all. You're looking to build a customer base you can sell to again and again, over a long period of time.

Passion : Holding Your Interest Over Time

Lack of passion turns product creation into drudgery and you have very little interest for what you are doing every day.

Consider how passionate you are about the subject matter, because you're going to be immersed in it for a long time. Ask yourself:

- Is this something you're interested in anyway? Even if you weren't doing this business, would be involved in this niche?

- Does creating information products for this niche seem like fun to you?

- Do you like the people that are involved in this niche? Do you empathize with your prospects and can you put yourself in their shoes? Are prospects just a means to an end and something you have to tolerate along the way?

- Can you see yourself in this niche five years from now?

You're building a business for the long-term. So ask yourself whether you can maintain the enthusiasm in the long run. 

Evaluating the Different Possibilities

Go through this exercise even if you already have an idea in mind. You might discover something that's a better fit for you. Use the worksheet provided and take an inventory of everything you know.

Think about your profession or work experiences. 

Do you know something or have you learned something that others might want to know? Such as starting or running a business, being successful in a particular job?
How about performing a specific activity or business function?

Think about your hobbies and pastimes. 

Do you know a lot about a particular hobby?
Have you figured-out some things that others might want to know about the hobby?

Think about your life experiences. 

What obstacles and challenges have you overcome in life?

The point is that you probably know more than you think you do. Ask your friends and family to get a different perspective. Take the Strenghts Finder 2.0 online test. Take inventory and explore the various possibilities. Once you've identified a few possibilities, evaluate each of the possibilities by giving them a score of 'high', 'medium' or 'low' on each of the three criteria: 

1. Access
2. Potential
3. Passion

Plugin Good to Great circles here.

This exercise is not about exact quantifications. You probably don't know how much potential exists for a given possibility. But you can evaluate the possibilities relative to each other.

Deciding on Your Niche or Topic

It's now time to make a decision. The ideal topic becomes obvious if you work through the exercises. The process of thinking through these issues has a way of revealing the best choice along the way.

All other things being equal, look at the topic you're most passionate about. Passion in the topic makes everything about this business a bit easier. It's the fuel that will keep you going; pushing through the challenges and figuring things out on the way.

The decision to pursue a topic doesn't shut the door on the other possibilities. You're just getting started with the odds stacked in your favor. You have to start somewhere. It's impossible to succeed without intense focus early on.

At some point down the road, you can certainly consider creating another line of products for an entirely different niche you might be interested in. Though, it is preferable to target the same niche since it makes the lifetime value of the customer very high. The infopreneur business can be replicated. You can create as many as you want. If they are in different markets the marketing cost will be higher. It requires more work. So, it's not ideal.

So don't think you're limiting yourself by choosing one niche to pursue. You're prioritizing your efforts and focusing your energies. The possibilities are endless but you have to start somewhere.

Using the Blueprint to Plan Your Offerings

It's finally time to plan and develop your initial product offerings. This step is going to be easier because you're going to use the blueprint as your guide. The blueprint is really powerful and it underlies nearly every successful inforpreneurial venture.

By using the blueprint to plan your product offerings, you'll be way ahead of the game right from the beginning. From the very start, you'll have all the elements in-place to maximize your potential as an infopreneur. Of course, you'll still have to tweak and improve things along the way. But you'll have the basic framework that's taken other people years to discover.

How should you use the blueprint? You'll simply plan and develop an offering in each of the three major buckets, lead-capture, front-end and back-end.

Free Lead Capture

Special Report
Email Newsletter
White Paper
Video Introduction
First Chapter
Postcast Interview
Basic Membership
Interview Transcript
Facts Sheet
Research Findings
Article Directory

Front-End Offering

Ebook
Training Manual
Worksheets
How-To Video
Podcast Series
Paid Newsletter
Exclusive Forum
Webinar
Tele-Seminar
Membership Level
Article Archive

Back-End Offering

Membership Site
Online Tools
Video Series
Training Kit
Webinar Series
Training Manual
Exclusive Forum
Coaching Courses
Workbooks
Combo Packages
Done-for-You Kits

These offerings can take a variety of forms. For example, you might have a 5-7 page report as a lead-capture offering. This might be a PDF that prospects download in exchange for their name and email address. It could be a free email newsletter subscription or access to introductory video.

For a front-end offering, you might sell an hour-long how-to video. It could be a 100 page training manual or online access to a series of interviews in audio format.

On the back-end, you might offer customers a members-only continuity program. It could be access to a complete series of videos or combo package that contains videos, audios, written reports and so on.

Consider the Format of Your Offerings

Make sure that the type of offering matches the needs and preferences of the people in your niche as well as your own capabilities from a product creation standpoint. Does your audience prefer to read? Do they prefer audio and video content? Strive to offer the format the audience prefers whenever possible.

Of course, preferences often depend on the nature of the content. Even if their normal preference is for written material, prospects and customers will expect to see certain kinds of how-to information presented in video form because it makes it easier to see how to do something.

You also need to think about how the different formats is perceived from a value perspective. Will the audience pay more for videos? 

Of course, you'll want to assess your own capabilities, too. For example, if you don't know how to generate a video, don't spend months to figure it out. Go with the written word for now. You can always add video later.

Brainstorming Possibilities in Each Area

Use the worksheet and brainstorm some potential offerings in each area of the infopreneurial blueprint. Be as specific as possible about the title and description of the potential offering.

Why? Because your prospects and customers will be pay attention to the title and description to decide whether it's something they really want or not. So you should work with titles right from the beginning. The more ideas you can come-up with at this stage, the better.

For inspiration, you can take a look at the 'how-to' section of the bookstore. See what others are offering on the Internet. You can borrow from it without copying. For example, Jack the plumber noticed a report titled, 'The 10 Mistakes Docters Make and How to Avoid Them'. He thought it was a compelling title, so he adapted it to his niche and it became, 'The 10 Mistakes New Plumbers Make and How to Avoid Them'.

Studies have shown that people will go to much greater lengths to avoid making a mistake or avoid losing something. As humans we're wired to avoid loss or pain. Keep this principle in mind, particularly for your lead-capture offer.

Evaluating the Potential Product Offerings

Once you've got a number of ideas, you'll again want to evaluate them thoughtfully and objectively.

- Which lead-capture idea will appeal to the greatest number of potential prospects in your niche?
- Is there a lead-capture offering that prospects will find compelling, particularly if it's free?
- Is there something prospects will want to get, even if they're just curious about what they might be missing?

For your front-end:
- Is there an idea that really seems to address the whole problem in a straightforward way?
- Is there an offering that looks like it would get a customer 90% of the way there? 
- Is there an idea that will be perceived as a great value for the $10 - $50 you charge?

Keep in mind, for front-end offerings you need a simple 'How to do something' as the title.

On the back-end, look for a viable and compelling continuity offering. An ongoing program that customers will see as a great way to continue their education or get the ongoing help they'll likely need along the way. Not every niche lends itself to these types of programs, so if you can't come up with one go for specificity, offerings that solve meaty problems in much more detail and for much more money.

If you've selected a niche you're passionate about, you're probably a prospect yourself. So you can evaluate the offerings based on what you yourself would want, what you would find most compelling or pay money to get.

Once you've evaluated a number of ideas in each blueprint area, you can decide on your intial spread or offerings you'll start to develop. Obviously, these choices are not set in stone. They're an initial starting point, because you've got to start somewhere.

Asking Prospects for Their Feedback

If you're not sure about the product spread you should start with, here's a very simple way to do some really meaningful research: Ask some prospects what they think. Take your ideas, print them out on a sheet of paper or send an email and have some prospects mark their top choices.

For your lead-capture ideas, ask them, 'If you could get one of these for free, which one would you choose?' For your front-end ideas, ask them something like, "Which one of these would you pay $37 to own?"

Your back-ends are going to be a bit more difficult to research in this manner, because people will need to have consumed your other information in order to offer a meaningful opinion. But that's ok, because, deciding on your lead-capture and front-end offerings are most important going into the product development stage.

Sequencing Your Product Development Efforts

As you begin to develop your actual products, you're going to sequence your efforts from left to right in the infopreneurial blueprint. You're going to focus on developing your lead-capture and front-end offerings first. You're going to get those up-and-running before you start working on your back-end offering. You'll do this for a number of reasons:

1. The level of effort involved will most-likely increase as you move from left to right. Your lead-capture offering is usually the lightest-weight offering in the spread. If it's a report, it's just a few pages. If it's a video, it's just a few minutes. Of course, it has to be good material, because it's acting as a sample. But it's not going to take you months to put together.

2. Your front-end offering is going to take a bit more time and effort. And while you're putting that offering together, your lead-capture can be creating a list of prospects who can buy it when it's ready.

3. Your back-end offering is likely going to require the most development work. And, you'll need a base of customers to sell it. So naturally, it's last on the list.

Going in sequence is very powerful, because you're creating a captive market for the next thing you're working on, while you're working on it.

Sequencing Improves Your Offerings

There's another powerful reason to sequence your development efforts: Each element in the sequence can help inform and improve the next element. Right now, you've got a list of ideas. You've thought them through. You've evaluated them. And, you might've even done a little one-on-one research. But it's not perfect and it's not set in stone.

So, what if the people who signed-up for your free lead-capture could tell you what information they were really willing to pay for? Wouldn't that allow you to make your front-end product better or more compelling? If you were giving people exactly what they asked for, wouldn't that allow you to sell more of your front-end product? Of course, it would.

And then, what if your front-end customers could tell you about any additional information they were looking for? What if thery were willing to pay more for the deeper information? Or the ongoing information and advice they were willing to pay a monthly fee to have access? Do you think that would make for better back-end offerings? Do you think you'd sell more of your back-end offerings if you were responding to this type of feedback? Of course!

By developing in sequence, you can use each element to inform and improve the next element. This takes a lot of the risk out of the equation. You're not putting a bunch of work into an offering, hoping you got it right and hoping that it sells. Instead, you're developing products condifently in the knowledge that your prospects and customers will really want them.

This is yet another very powerful aspect of the infopreneurial blueprint.

Create Great Products Not Perfect Products

Don't strive for perfection. You're better off seeking continuous improvement of the product over time. Remember that people are buying your knowledge. They're not paying for perfect grammar, beautiful graphics or the soundtrack behind your voice-over. They want the information.

Some of the highest-priced and best-selling information products are just words on a page or voices on a recording. Of course, those words and voices are conveying valuable information, but the products themselves aren't flashy and aren't perfect. 

The point is, do your best to produce a quality product. But put a time limit on it, make sure the information itself is good, get version 1 of the product done and get it out there. You can always improve it later. 

Brainstorm and Evaluate Topic Worksheet

Brainstorm and Evaluate Potential Product Offerings Worksheet

Module 3 : Setting Up Your Own Online Storefront

The ebook marketplaces and online retailers will say that you don't need your own website because they already have one. They'll say that all you need to do is upload your products into their website. But they are playing a different game, where they own the customer relationship and not you.

As an infopreneur, you need your own online store. It allows you to establish that direct relationship with your prospects and customers, a relationship that's critical for maximizing your potential in this business. It also provides you a platform for enhancing your credibility and authority around your niche.

You control your own destiny with your own online store. You're not at the mercy of some merchandizing guy who only sees you as a product in a catalog and your potential audience isn't limited to only those people who might frequent a particular website.

But for most people, creating an online store sounds scary. You're an expert in your topic and you're online and connected but you're probably not an expert in building websites. Today, you don't need to know any technical knowledge to create your own online store.

You just need to have a clear picture of what you ultimately need to create and how everything needs to work. From there, the solutions are readily available. As for knowing what you ultimately need to build, it's best to start with a good blueprint, so you know what makes an effective online store before you even begin.

Identifying and Effective Site Specification

We can follow the example of successful infopreneurs. We can use the same elements fundamental to their success. These elements are simple and yet very effective. The basic blueprint that makes an effective infopreneurial online store covers the key pages and content you'll want to include, as well as the essential capabilities and tools to make everything work. This site specification covers the essentials, the basic things you need to have in-place in order to achieve 90% of your potential.

Site Spec : Key Content and Pages

There are six main collection of web pages that are important to understand. These are the tabs at the top of the site.

1. The Home page is where many people will decide whether or not they should go further and peruse more of your site. This is a great place to prominently feature your lead-capture offer.

2. The About page lets customers learn more about you and your business. This is an important page. Because you're letting prospects know that there's a real, authentic and passionate person behind the business.

3. The Articles section is a collection of free bite-sized content that demonstrate your expertise and provides prospects with another way to sample you.

4. The Products section is where the sales pages for your front-end and back-end products will reside. 

5. The Contact page can have your business address and phone number. It can be a form that prospects fill-out to sent you an email. This is important because it gives prospects comfort knowing that they're dealing with a real entity that's accessible.

6. The Members area is where customers will access their purchased products. The downloadable goods, the vidoes or audios, the continuity or members-only program content and so on.

There are three secondary pages that are also needed. These can be text links at the bottom of the site.

1. The Privacy Policy page is where you let people know how you'll be handline their personal contact information. Letting people know that you protect your user's privacy and avoid spam will increase sign-up rates a lot.

2. Term and Conditions. This is the legal document to make your policies around site usage and product sales clear.

3. Affiliate Program Page. Once you have a front-end product for sale, this page is about providing tools and guidance to others who want to promote your products.

You can add additional things but these are foundational elements that is sufficient for version 1 of your site. We now know what content we need but how do we make everything work? 

Site Spec : Essential Functionality and Tools

In this specification, there are seven functional elements you'll need to understand.

1. Domain. It should convey what the site is about. 

2. Website. The website will have the webpages hosted online. Look for a solution where you can point-and-click to add pages and text and so on. There are easy site builders available that makes a non technical people build a website.

3. Email Management. You need email handling and contact management. People will be signing-up for your lead capture, you'll be sending cultivation emails and you'll have email lists of prospects and customers. You'll need an easy-to-use solution that takes care of all that, while also keeping you compliant on SPAM and privacy issues.

4. Secure Product Delivery. You want to protect yourself when you sell digital products by delivering the downloads in a secure way. For members-only program that has controlled access content, you need a way to manage subscribers and control over who has access to which content.

5. Payment Processing. To sell online, you need to be able to process payments by taking credit cards, validate them, make sure they're not fradulent, settle the funds and so on. This is not scary these days. Today, it's a simple process.

6. Affiliate Tracking and Payout. Finally when you're ready to start promoting your products, you'll need affiliate tracking and commission payment. This should be done after you optimize your conversion rates.

That's the basic site specification, 9 key content areas and 7 functional capabilities.

This site specification gives you an elegant and simple site. It is very effective online store for an infopreneurial business.

Implementing the Spec in Sequence

You don't have to implement the entire basic site specification all at once. You can do it in sequence. Just as you're sequencing your product development efforts, you can use the infopreneurial blueprint to break the site specification down and implement only what you need at each stage.

Lead Capture
Front-End Offering
Back-End Offering

At the lead capture stage, you'll need just 3 of the 7 elements:

1. Your own domain.
2. Website Builder solution.
3. Email handling and contact management.

For the key pages and content you'll need at this stage, you'll need the Home, About and Contact primary pages as well as the Privacy Policy and Terms & Conditions secondary pages.

At this stage you'll also want to populate the primary Articles section with 3 or 4 articles that demonstrate your expertise in the subject matter. These articles should be 300 to 400 words each, bite-size nuggets of wisdom or knowledge that give prospects comfort that you know what you're talking about.

You can think of these articles as a step before your lead-capture offering. Your lead capture is free from a financial perspective, prospects still have to provide their contact information to get it. These articles are a completely free way for prospects to sample you. By providing this free information, you'll get more people signing-up for your lead-capture offering. After reading your articles, you'll be more credible and they'll want the information in your lead-capture offering even more. 

At the front-end offering stage, you'll likely need 3 more of functional elements. You'll have a product for sale, so you'll want secure product delivery and payment processing. You'll want to start promoting that product, so that's where the affiliate tracking element comes into play.

As for key pages and content, you'll want to have the Product section for your front-end product's sales page. The Affiliate Program secondary page will also be a good thing to have at this stage.

At the back-end stage, the functional element you'll need will depend on the type of back-end offerings you've developed. If you're offering some kind of continuity program where people need to come back again and again to get more content on your site, you'll need the controlled access functionality and the Members content area. On the other hand, if your back-end offering is a deeper or more detailed training manual or some other one-time purchase product, you'll just need an additional sales page under the Products section.

Avoiding Common Mistakes

Mistake #1 

Don't waste time on color scheme, imagery, background music or anything to make your site fancy. Focus your efforts on creating quality content. This time is well spent. This is an information business. What your site says matters a whole lot more than how it looks or what technologies or tools it uses.

Mistake #2

Reinventing the wheel. The site specification is based on the trial-and-error that thousands of successful infopreneurs have already gone through. It may not be unique or creative, but it works. As an infopreneur your 'uniqueness' and credibility should be demonstrated through your content and not the structure of your website.

Mistake #3

Obession for perfection. Nothing is going to be absolutely perfect before you get started. You don't have to have it all. You can implement the specification in sequence, as you need it.

In this business, it's not even possible for things to be perfect. You're always going to have room for improvement. Some of these opportunities for improvement won't even be apparent until you get things in front of your audience and get some market feedback. So get started and get things out there. Understand that it's never going to be perfect and commit to making improvements over time.

Click Plan 'Out of the Box'

Up to this point, the infopreneurial site specification has been discussed in generic terms. If you're a DIY person, the specification gives you a solid blueprint for what you need to build and what functionality you need to pull together. But it's important to remember that even if you're doing it yourself, working with ClickPlan can make things a lot easier. After all, when you work with us, even at the most basic, do-it-yourself level, you get:

1. Payment Processing and Fraud Control
2. Affiliate Tracking and Commission Payout
3. End-customer support for order processing questions, refund requests etc.

And for some of the other functionality a do-it-yourselfer might be looking to pull together, we've partnered with the best solution providers and negotiated special deals for ClickPlan clients.

So as you go about establishing your own online store, if you plan to do it yourself, remember that ClickPlan offers a number of functional elements in the specification right 'out-of-the-box' so to speak. And also remember to check-out our partner program - it can save you a bunch of time trying to find the best solutions at the best prices.

A prepackaged solution makes your life a lot easier and gets your business off the ground a lot faster.

Introducting the ClickPlan Powered Platform

This is an information business builder. If you can browse web pages and use a word processor, that's all the technical know-how you're going to need. If you can point, click and type, your're all set.

There's on-screen guidance and in-context help at every step of the way.

Page 10 has the diagram for Infopreneurial Site Specification

Promoting and Selling Your Product Offerings

Build it and they will come is not what you want to do in business. If you've done a good job selecting your niche and structuring product offerings, that will certainly help stack the deck in your favor.

Prospects can't buy something they don't even know about. You've to take action to get your offerings in-front of your prospects. 

There are hundreds of tactics for promotion. Online or offline, if there's a communication mechanism, there are ton of promotional tactics. The terminology itself can overwhelm you.

So, how do you get started? How do you know what to do from a promotional perspective in the early days, when you're just beginning? Here again, the infopreneurial blueprint can make things easier to understand in the beginning and it can make things far more effective in the end. 

Each element in the blueprint has a unique function and objective, each has its own role to play in making your little info-business machine work. As a result, each area of the blueprint also has unique promotional opportunities, considerations and timing.

Lead Capture
Front-End Offering
Back-End Offering

Viewing your efforts through the lens of the infopreneurial blueprint can simplify your understanding of which promotional activities you should engage in. It can also make it easier to understand the sequence of those activities. In other words, it can help you understand what you should be doing first, next and so on.

Start with Your Lead Capture Offering

The point of your promotional efforts in Lead Capture is to grow your list of leads and prospects. To create a pool of people who are interested enough in the topic to engage with you, a pool of people who can eventually buy your products. You're not looking just for email addresses here, if they aren't a potential customer for your products, then they aren't truly a prospect.

The question of when you should start growing your list is almost as important as how you should start growing your list. If you're building your product spread in sequence from left to right over time, you can start growing your list of prospects as soon as you bring your lead-capture offer online. While you're working on your front-end product, your lead capture allows you to create and cultivate a list of people who can buy that product when it's ready.

You can solicit input from these prospects, feedback you can use to make your front-end product as compelling and applealing as possible.

So, it's a great idea to start promoting your lead-capture right away, even before you have any products to sell. The sooner you start, the bigger that captive audience will be when you actually do have something ready to sell.

If you've set-up your online store following the basic site specification, you're going to have a bunch of free information that can act as bait for these prospects you're going to capture and cultivate.

Promote the Value of Your Free Information

You've got your lead-capture offer, a pithy report, an intro video, something worth providing a name and address to get a hold of. You've also got the little articles you've written to demonstrate your expertise and enhance your credibility. So at this stage, the value you're going to promote to your niche is the free information you have available right now. In doing so, you'll start the initial flow of traffic to your website and you'll start adding prospects to your email list.

Once you have the lead-capture offer in place, you'll want to highlight it wherever you can. Don't underestimate the power of a compelling offer for free information. People who are interested in the topic are information sponges and they will investigate your free report to make sure they don't miss something important. So think about how and where you can highlight it as soon as it's available. 

For example, put it in your email signature. Include the title of your free offer and the link to your website. It's a very simple and easy thing to do, but it gets your free offer in front of the people you interact with, without you have to remember to do it. Just use a line or two of text. Don't use image of the report or logo. Spam filters could block your message.

You can print a double-sided business cards printed up as soon as the lead-capture offer is available. These cards have the standard stuff on one side and a little ad for lead-capture offer on the other. Every interaction, every event and meeting you attend, pass this card out and generate leads. So think about it and figure out ways to systematically highlight your lead-capture offer wherever you can.

Reach Out to Your Personal Connections

If you have personal connections to people in your niche, let them know about the free information and solicit their opinions. You're leading with free information. Look at it like you're doing them a service.

Friends and family's opinions, though interesting are just not all that relevant. So make sure you're reaching out to personal contacts and connections that fit your niche. Their feedback will be more valuable and if they get on your list, they might become customers one day.

Reach Out to Online Gathering Places

There places where you can reach your audience. Such as blogs, chat-rooms, forums, club or association, social media group or a specific magazine. 

These places are great to highlight the free information. The people who run the association may be willing to highlight your free information in their newsletter. Your free information is a valuable resource and the association is doing their membership a service by pointing it out. The same thing can said about other places of gathering. Follow the established rules and etiquette along the way.

Free Information Still has to be Sold

Tell why and how your free information meets your audience needs. Think about what's in it for them. How will they benefit from the free information? What will they get out of it? How will it meet some need they have or address some problem they have? Then just articulate those things. 

On your lead-capture form, make sure you're linking to your privacy policy to let people know that you're protecting them. 

Cultivate Your Prospect List Over Time

Once you start capturing leads and add people to your prospect list, cultivate them. Keep them engaged and enhance your credibility over time. Essentially, you want to get this captive audience into a position to eventually buy from you.

Cultivate your prospects using more of what brought them to you, more content and information.

On a regular basic, montly at a minimum, send your prospects an email and let them know about some more information you have available. An article, a new tip or trick you've discovered, an insight you've had about the topic etc. These messages are valuable nuggets of information that keep people engaged and enhance your authority.

Once in a while, ask for feedback to improve your products. As your prospects about their top five problems. Then address those problems in your front-end product to make it more appealing for purchase.

Make prospects feel more engaged and invested. Be someone who cares what they think.

What About Search Engines?

You're already working to appeal to the search engines by providing relevant content and relative popularity gained by building links to your free content. There is no need to worry about SEO now.

Promoting Your Front-End Product

Following the blueprint, the next stage of your promotional efforts is promoting and selling your front-end offering. This is about converting interested prospects into paying customers and starting a buying relationship that could last for years.

You need to create a good sales letter. In this letter, provide a lot of specifics on what's in it for them. Focus on benefits and the problems that it addresses. Include reviews and testimonials to build credibility.

So it's a good idea to recruit some people from your prospect list to review your product before making it more broadly available. Ask them to provide feedback and a testimonial or review you can use on your site. You can use the feedback to tweak your product to make it better. The testimonials and reviews in the sales page help prospects get an idea about the value they'll receive through your products.

Launch Your New Offering to Prospects

An effective approach to increase the initial sales is to launch your new offering. The launch turns the mere availability of your product into an event. It is something that prospects can anticipate, look forward to and even participate in. 

Become a bit more transparent with your prospects as you're working on your front-end product. In your prospect cultivation messages, tell them what you're working on and when you expect it to be completed. When you send-out requests for feedback, let them know that it's going to be incorporated into your upcoming product. As you gather pre-release testimonials or reviews, share them, let them know that they're just days away from buying the product.

Get It With Lead Capture and Cultivation

Once you've launched your front-end product and it's available for sale, integrate it into your lead capture and prospect cultivation flows. The blueprint is designed to get prospects comfortable with you before trying to sell them something, so you've to let the model work for you.

So, put some references in there for prospects that are ready to step-up a little faster. For example, you can add a little ad for your front-end product at the end of your lead capture offering. For a report add a page at the end to give details about the product available for purchase. For a video, add a screen at the end for this purpose. You can also add it on the page where the video will play. Your follow-up or cultivation emails to prospect can include a little note, a postscript or an ad at the bottom, highlighting your front-end product. Make sure that every lead or prospect is made aware of this product for purchase. 

Leverage Performance Based Marketing

Affiliate marketing is where someone promotes a product online and gets a commission on their referrals. You only pay an affiliate on the sales they generate.

The mechanics behind this complicated. Tracking visitors and sales to specific affiliates. Making sure that affiliates get paid the right amount and on time. ClickPlan takes care of this complicated stuff for you. 

As highlighted previously, the most successful infopreneurs make most of their money on the back-end. They recognize that even if they don't make money at all on the first sale to a new customer, they'll make it up and more on the subsequent back-end sales they'll ultimately make over time. So they're willing to pay affiliates a much larger commission on their front-end products. Obviously, large commissions attract more affiliates.

Don't make the mistake of setting the commission levels on your front-end offerings too low. Paying a 75% commission might seem like a lot for a single sale. But recognize that you're not paying for a single sale, you're paying to acquire a new customer that you'll sell to, over and over again for many years.

Recruit Affiliates Specific to Your Niche

One of the best ways to leverage affiliate marketing is to recruit affiliates that make sense for your business and fit your niche. Your affiliates just sign-up for a free ClickPlan affiliate account, get their tracking code and they can start promoting your product immediately. It's as simple as that.

You can provide financial incentive to promote your front-end product to the blogs, forums, associations and so on you contacted for promoting your free information. They can earn affiliate commissions for putting your offering in front of their audience.

Your offering must be right for their audience with meaningful affiliate commission. Your outreach to them must be professional. 

Cultivate Your Customers Over Time

Once you're selling your front-end product, converting prospects and building a customer list, you'll want to continue to cultivate that list over time. You'll want to keep your front-end customers engaged and primed, so that they can eventually buy your back-end offering.

You have to follow-up with more information on a regular basis, monthly at a minimum. With customer cultivation, you'll reinforce your credibility and authority by providing even deeper and more specific information. They have purchased your front-end product, you now have a consistent base of knowledge you can use as a spring-board. In other words, you can reference concepts that are in your front-end product and go deeper on them or provide more specific guidance. Remember just as your prospect cultivation acts as a sample of your front-end offering, your customer cultivation should act as a sample of your back-end offering.

Again, it's a great idea to sprinkle-in a research or feedback opportunity. Reach out to your customer list and ask them something related to the back-end offering you're working on.

What About Paid Advertising?

 You need a solid understanding of your conversion ratios through the various stages in the blueprint. You also need to know how much a customer is worth to you over time. Since you don't have this information, it becomes a risky gamble. So, don't worry about it at this early stage.
 
Your best bet at this stage is to fully utilize affiliate marketing. Until you get your back-ends selling and you have a much better understanding of the various metrics and ratios associated with your business. There is no risk in affiliate markeing. Because, you only pay when a sale is made. Done right, it can generate a lot of new customers for you.

So while you're getting the rest of your product offering and the rest of your business up-and-running, squeeze as much as you can out of affiliate marketing first. Then you can consider paid advertising.

Launching Your Back-End Offering

Let's recap where we are. First, you started promoting the free information on your site to build and cultivate an email list of prospects. Next, you launched your front-end product to these prospects and also began recruiting commission based affiliates and partners. As a result, you're starting to make sales and starting to build and cultivate a customer list.

Following the blueprint, the next stage of your promotional efforts is all about promoting and selling your back-end offering. This is all about getting front-end customers to step-up and pay more to get more.

Similar to front-end offer launch, it's a good idea to launch your back-end offering as well. It's just that in launching your back-end offering you're talking to customers instead of prospects. But the basic process is pretty much the same.

As you cultivate your front-end customers, you're letting them know about the back-end offering you're working on and when you expect it to be available. As you reach out to customers for feedback and research input, you're letting them know that it's going to be used toward enhancing the product in development that will soon be available.

Again, you're just building-up a little anticipation for the new offering to be released. In effect, you're pre-selling it or you're creating demand for it, ahead of it's availability. 

Don't hype. Just be factual about what you're doing, why you're doing it and how you believe it will help your customers. In other words, be authentic and truthful. Customers look for someone who they can trust and believe. You'll be rewarded with loyal customers who'll buy from you again and again.

Integrate It with Your Front-End Efforts

Once you've launched your back-end product and it's available for sale, you want to integrate it into your front-end offering and customer cultivation flows. Just like you did when you integrated your front-end product into your lead capture offering and prospect flows.

Here again, you can put an ad for your back-end offering at the end of your front-end product. You can highlight your backend offering in all of your customer cultivation messages.

In fact, with your customers, you can be a bit more overt about promoting your backend offering. Be subtle. You don't want your customers to unsubscribe and tell you that they don't want to hear from you ever again. But you've built-up enough trust and credibility to increase the amount of pitching you do. For example, you can dedicate entire messages to promoting your backend offering, what it is, what it entails, what's in it for them, the benefits others have seen and so on. If it's a good value, your customers will want to know about it.

Remember, at a minimum, you make sure that every front-end customer from this point forward is made aware of this backend product that you now have for sale. And just like before, some will go for it early and some will take more cultivation.

Consider the Skippers and Collectors

Skippers are prospects who are ready to pay more to get more right now. They don't have to go through the sampling process. They're ready to get the most complete thing you have to offer and they're prepared to pay for it. 

Collectors are information sponges. These prospects are very interested in the topic. As a result they're consuming every piece of relevant information they can get their hands-on. They don't buy one book on the topic they are interested in. They buy every book available on that topic. So make your backend products visible on your website. You'll still want the primary focus to be on your lead-capture and front-end offering. But let the skippers skip and let the collectors collect.

Let the Proven Blueprint Work its Magic

Don't lead with your backend offering. Remember that the blueprint is structured the way it is because the vast majority of prospects are not yet ready or willing to spend much money with you. It's too big of a risk for them. Instead, they'll sample you through your lead capture offering. They'll get comfortable enough to spend a little money on your front-end product. Then and only then will they be comfortable enough to spend even more money on your backend product.

So you need to get comfortable with the idea that most of your external promotional efforts are going to be squarely-focused on promoting your lead-capture and front-end offers. They're the first steps and they create the ready and willing customer-base for your back-end offering.

Keep in mind that others have already tried to do things differently. They've already tried to lead with their back-end offerings. But the blueprint endures. The most successful infopreneurs use it because it works. So let it work for you.

Optimize the Bluprint Throughput

In general the blueprint is effective. You still want to take steps to improve the flow or the throughput from front to back in your specific situation. It's normal to have a quite a bit of fallout between the stages. Only some of the people who sign-up for your lead capture offer are going to end up buying your front-end product. Similarly, only some of the people who buy your front-end product are going to end-up buying your back-end offering.

Nonetheless, you need to minimize this fallout wherever possible. You'll never get enveryone to convert from one stage to the next, but if you can increase the throughput at the various stages by even 10%, it'll have a big impact on your ability to promote your business moving forward. Why? Because your ability to promote your business is directly related to how well your little machine converts prospects into profits. 

Let's say that after going through your machine; lead capture, front-end, back-end, 100 leads end-up generating $200 in profit for you. Well then, how much can you invest in promotion to attract 100 leads? If you invest more than $200 attracting 100 leads, you're losing money, right? But on the other hand, let's say your machine does a better job of moving people through the stages and 100 leads end up generating $1000 in profits. Well, now you can invest much more to attract those leads while still making money.

Diagram on page 15 goes here

It's simple. The more effective your machine the better the throughput, the more options you're going to have when it comes to promotion.

Work to Keep Subscribers Hooked

If you've a continuity program as a back-end offering, one of the easiest yet most overlooked ways to increase the average valueof your customers or increase the profit output of your little machine is to get your subscribers to stick around for a longer period of time. People get so caught up in generating more leads and more new customers that they take their existing customers and their existing subscribers for granted. 

It's important to keep in mind that if you can make some improvements that get an average subscriber to double the length of time they stick around, that's worth more to you than acquiring a brand new customer. The longer an average subscriber sticks around, the more you'll be able to invest in getting even more subscribers in the future. 

So keep an eye on the tenure of your back-end subscribers by keeping track of how long they stick around and stay subscribed and strive to extend it. 

Can you Consider Paid Advertising?

How do you avoid wasting money on paid advertising? Ask yourself these questions:

1. Are you leveraging performance-based marketing to the fullest?
2. Have you done everything you can to get affiliates to promote your products?
3. have you partnered with other people serving your niche?
4. Have you gotten gathering places to promote you in exchange for a commission?
5. Have you tried to get the places you're thinking about advertising with to accept an affiliate commission instead of an upfront payment?


1. Is more traffic and more leads really what you need?
2. Are you not converting enough of what you already have?
3. Are you not getting enough throughput from one stage to the next?
4. Have you done everything you can to optimize your current flows?

You cannot have leaky buckets to spend money on advertising.

1. Do you know enough to be certain you'll see a return on investment?
2. Do you have any experience with the type of advertising you're considering?
3. How much time would you have to invest to learn everything you need to know?
4. Would your time be better-spent recruiting affiliates who are already experts in that type of advertising?

We're not trying to discourage you. Rather, we want you to be sure that you're doing the right things, in the right ways and for the right reasons, before you invest your money in something that may not work.

Reducing Your Risks on Paid Advertising

If you've answered all of the questions and you're serious about spending money upfront on paid advertising, here are seven important tips that can keep you out of trouble:

1. Promote your lead capture offering, not your front-end product. In most cases, to get the most for your money, you'll want to maximize the number of prospects you generate. Your free lead-capture offering is the best bet for that.

2. Focus on end-results, not intermediate steps. Pay-per-click companies try to sucker you into thinking it's all about the clicks, because that's how they make money. Don't fall for it. Focus on the result you're after, qualified leads and sales.

3. Calculate the response you need. Use your throughput metrics to determine the response you'll need to breakeven on the investment. Will you need 100 leads to generate enough sales to cover it? Or will you need 1000? Is that realistic? If not, run away.

4. Track everything, all the way through. Online or offline, every ad can be tracked. Do it all the way through, so that you know the actual value of the resulting prospects. Remember you won't get a return if prospects don't end-up buying. 

5. Test small and fail fast. Run a smaller test first. Track the results to see if a larger buy is really worthwhile. Keep in mind, response will typically go down a bit as you scale things up, so fator that in when making a decision about buying more.

6. Start digital. Before trying something offline, see if there's an online version that will be easier to test and track. For example, does that association you're thinking about advertising with have an electronic member newsletter?

7. Optimize and negotiate. Use your upfront breakeven calculations to negotiate better rates. Use the results of your tests to negotiate better rates. Always be optimizing your spend. Shift money toward the winners and away from the losers.

Promoting Your Offerings Step-by-Step

You can't sit on your laurels and expect business to come to you. You have to be proactive and take steps to get your products in front of the people who can buy them. 

Even though there are a ton of confusing options out there and hudreds of differnt tactics to choose from, you can make sense of it. There is a way to break it down, so you can understand exactly what you need to do and when you need to do it.

Viewing your promotional efforts through the lens of the infopreneurial blueprint and taking things step-by-step can make things easier to understand in the beginning. Ultimately, it can make things far more effective in the end.

ClickPlan is Here to Help You Succeed

Through this introductory training series on how to become a successful infopreneur, we've given you a lot to think about and even some homework to do. The fact that you've gotten this far speaks volumes about your potential for success in this business. So we sincerely hope you'll continue to move forward and turn your knowledge into a little business of your own.

As you do, please remember that you're not alone. We at ClickPlan are passionate about the infopreneurial opportunity and we're here to help you at every step along the way.


 










 







Sales Page

You will learn about Infopreneurial Business model. How it works and why it's so powerful.
You will learn how to unlock the potential in your brain. How to evaluate everything you know. How to select a topic with the best odds for long-term success.

Random Thoughts

Build audience by teaching. Give away the content for free. Why? To generate leads. 

Send life cycle emails by helping them with every problem they might have. Why? Convert browsers to prospects. Cultivation emails. Why? Convert prospects to customers by developing a relationship and establishing credibility. 

ClickBank material covers only Potentiate part of the success equation. It does not cover Consolidate and Isolate.

SaaS App Success Bluprint

Build Audience : Free Lead Capture : Email Course in exchange for name and email.
Sell           : Front End Offering : Complete Package that provides end-to-end solution (Break even price). Delegate the work to freelancers. 
Back End Offering : Continuity Program that provides SaaS app as their selling platform. Pay as you go 10% transaction fees. 

Consolidate ] Create and combine existing material
Isolate     ] Create and combine existing material
Potentiate : CB course notes

Information Triangle
Computer
Internet
Payment Processing

Think like a publisher. Not like a software company.

Metamorphosis

Prospect --> Customer --> Fan

Frame of Mind

- Who is this guy?
- Hmm. He knows something. This is good stuff...
- What else does he have? I want them all now...



