The Five Most Dangerous Trends Facing Infopreneurs

If you build it, they will buy!

The key steps in the creation of a great Core Story are:

Step 1: 

Research your industry over a thirty year period. That's where you'll find trends that no one else has spotted. How many of everything was there thirty years ago, twenty years ago, ten years ago? Even you will get "wows" from looking at stats over time. For example, with the day spas, I had asked for the failure rate of day spas. The research revealed that they weren't failing at all. They were growing like wildfire. So look at data over time. It'll really fascinate you.

Step 2: 

Look for the bad news. That's what motivates. Specifically, look for bad news that you might be able to tie to a solution that involves your product or service. Never lie. Never make up anything. But in the example above, we were looking for failure rate as a 'pain' point when we found that just wasn't true. But what we did find is that because these day spas are such a raging success, everyone and their uncle is opening one and the market is getting massively competitive. Bad news. And it's the truth.

Step 3: 

Manipulation of that data is the most difficult part of it. It is an art form onto itself. Stack the info, cross reference the info, blend it with other info, etc. When I built these myself, I would do all the original panels by hand on 3X5 index cards. This way you can erase info, and keep shifting the order of how you want to present the info, all in a delicate balance of insight that eventually leads to that prospect wanting YOUR product or service over all of your competitors.

Step 4: 

Really important. Do NOT pitch your product until the very end. You want the material in the front and 3/4 through to all be a "set up." Then somewhere toward the end, you want a section that says: "What to look for in X type of provider." At this point you would present all this data about yourself without really saying it's you. In the telephone company example, they presented: "What to look for in your telephone system provider" and they had five things and every one of them set them up to be the most logical provider.

So when they came to the end of the presentation it was hardly necessary to pitch themselves. They had already laid out, in logical progression, the best company to work with and the buyer was nodding all the way. So now you can have a small section at the end that says: "Would you like to know a little about us?" If you've done a great job, no one will ever say no. They'll all say yes. And there is where you put some panels about yourself.

