Why would I earn x if 10x is a possibility?
Disruptive innovation is the term coined by Clayton Christianson to describe
a low end or new market innovation that eventually upends an industry.
The disruptors think Amazon in the 1990's secured a foothold at
the low end of the market.
And then in the pursuit of profit,
gradually produce higher performance, higher margin products.
Established competitors.
Barnes and Noble, Borders.
Could aggressively counter an attack by a
low-end disruptor, but they don't because it doesn't
make financial sense to defend their least profitable
products, when they themselves could move up market.
Until of course, it does make sense. And by then, it's too late.
In a climate of disruption, it's too late because there are time delays.
When systems behave linearly, we're fairly accurate with
our forecast, but when they don't, predictive power plummets.
Meaning when an industry is undergoing disruption, it is a terrific
time for innovation, but for the individuals who are experiencing
a seismic shift in what job looks like.
It can be pretty unsettling.
So, how do we cope with the unpredictability of disruption.
The S-Curve helps us gauge how quickly an innovation will be adopted.
It also helps us understand the psychology of disruption.

For example, you've just started a new job, the
S-Curve tells you that initially progress will be quite slow.
This helps avoid discouragement.
As you practice you'll accelerate into competence
and confidence, and then as you approach
mastery, the less you'll enjoy the feel good
effects of learning and boredom can kick in.
If you don't jump to a new curve, your plateau can become a precisest.

 I believe harnessing this powerful mindset begins with the individual.
If you can ride the waves of learning and maxing out.
You will have a competitive advantage in an era of accelerating disruption.
And whether a company or individual, we all seem to follow seven basic rules.

It starts with taking the right risks.
Next, play to your distinctive strengths. Then
embrace constraints. Battle entitlement.
Step back or sideways in order to grow. Then,
there is failure. Finally, let your strategy emerge.

As you go through this course and follow these seven basic
rules you will begin to understand how you can disrupt yourself.