Now that you are taking the right risks.
Play to your distinctive strengths.
Skype came on the market and rather than skirmish with
Verizon for the large corporate customers who required superior sound quality.
Skype went after the people who needed long distance but couldn't afford it.
College students.
For these customers, inferior sound quality was a
small price to pay for Skype's distinctive strength,
it was free.
So, I have a friend named Adam Richardson, he
wanted to be a designer and his passion was cars.
But his approach to design was research-based.
As a kid he would measure in great detail every car interior he could
find and then with clipboard in hand survey the adults about what they wanted.
Adam eventually became an industrial designer at Sun Microsystems,
a very traditional job.
But when he began to apply research to design, he was able
to make the leap to his dream job at Innovation Consultancy Frog.
Another example of playing to
your distinctive strengths is Celine Schillinger.
Celine had studied Public Affairs and Communications in college.
But has spent most of her career
in international business, primarily in scientific environments.
She loved her job at Santa Fe Pasteur, a pharmaceutical company.
But she didn't feel that her connector
abilities, those distinctive strengths, were quite being used.
She also felt that her company was actually in
danger competitively, because of their narrow approach to talent management. So?
She wrote a memo to the CEO.
Initially, she didn't get a response, but the memo that she'd
written, she shared with a few colleagues and that went viral.
What ended up happening, is that she is now the leader of a movement within
Sanofi focused on gender balance that has
2500 people across five entities and 50 countries.
Today, she's the head of Stakeholder Engagement which
is dedicated to eradicating dengue fever, within Sanofi Pasteur.
Whatever your discipline, get the skills
that you need to do your job, and then focus on your distinctive strengths.
If the market doesn't recognize or value that skillset initially.
Even better. That's your competitive edge.
Now you may be wondering, well what are my distinctive strengths?
I'll give you two hints.
Number one, what is something that someone says to you frequently
that you do very, very well, and you fact dismiss them?
It's so easy for you,
it doesn't even occur to you that this is your strength.
That's one of your distinctive strengths.
Number two, what makes you feel powerful?
As you think about the end of a day, what have you
done that you just felt good doing and you wanted to do it?
Again, that's your distinctive strength. So, as you're looking to disrupt yourself.
Think about what makes you feel powerful, and what is something
that people frequently say to you, wow, you do that well.