As you navigate disruption, think about how you can embrace and even
create constraints. 

Intuit, a financial services company
who brought us QuickBooks and Turbo Tax is a good example of how and why to do this.
The VPA product development was given the mandate,
improve the lives of India's 1.2 billion people.
Amazingly, Intuit didn't
throw a lot of resources at this.
They said to three engineers, we want you to go
to rural India for three weeks, and figure something out.
The engineers quickly discovered that the
farmers had limited access to commodity prices.
They began experimenting, manually texting them price and buyer information. Inexpensive.
Easy to iterate.
Today, the service known as Fasal
is a simple but sophisticated text based platform.
Now using complicated algorithms to help farmers get the best prices.
It has over 1.5 million users who enjoy a 20% increase in their bottom-line.

Constraints, can also lead to faster feedback.
Skateboarders are some of the quickest learners
on the planet.
Every action, every move has an immediate consequence.
In 1954, an editor at Hoten Mefflin
read the now-famous article, Why Johnny Can't Read.
Concerned, he challenged one of his Illustrator friends.
Take 225 unique words every six-year-old knows, and write me a book that
first graders can't put down. Took him a year and a half.
At one point he got so discouraged, he almost gave up.
But, when Theodor Geisel published The Cat in the Hat in 1957, it was an instant hit.
Years of reciting rhymes, of creating cartoons.
Of leveraging what he did uniquely well, prepared Geisel to reinvent
children's literature when presented with a 225 word constraint.
For disruptors, constraints aren't a check on absolute freedom.
They're a tool of creation.
Think about, what are my constraints?

Is it time?
Is it money? 
Is it space?
Is it expertise? 

We all have constraints.

But now we think about how that constraint, together
with your distinctive strengths, can become a tool of creation.