Consider is the importance of battling entitlement.
In one of the start ups I backed as an
angel investor, we had allocated $90,000 for a particular expenditure.
One of the senior managers then unilaterally made changes, none
of which were critical, just to throw their weight around.
This led to a crippling overage, a factor in the company's demise.
Aldous Huxley the author of Brave New World said, most human
beings have an almost infinite capacity for taking things for granted.
Disruption comes because we hunger for a better life.
It's no wonder then that the emerging markets are a seed bed of innovation, or
that from 1995 to 2005, 52% of
Silicon Valley start ups were founded by immigrants.
When we're satiated, we're not compelled to innovate and disrupt.
But what would happen if we could compare the hunger of
the developing markets, with the embarrassment
of resources of the developed markets.
There's another kind of entitlement that's worth mentioning.
This happens when we feel like we don't have to
listen to the ideas of people who aren't like us.
It's a well-researched subject.
We listen to women and men differently.
For example, women have to be two and a
half times more productive to be judged on equal footing.
Women are less likely to get senior management
appointments or to be sponsored for those appointments.
And a woman's disruptive idea encounters more friction before gaining traction.
It's pretty dispiriting, but on the other
hand, we do understand that this widespread
systemic bias exists.
We also know that having women and men on the same team,
raises the team's collective intelligence and its ability to solve complex problems.
If you're smart, you use this awareness to your advantage.
There's another kind of entitlement.
It sometimes happens with this I exist, therefore I deserve sort of
mentality at the low end of the curve or with young employees.
But we also have to find entitlement as
we rise through the ranks and literally become entitled.
Which is why I love the story of Dr.
Stephen Curley, cancer researcher and John Kansas, a radio technician,
who believed that you could treat
cancer non-invasively using radio frequency waves.
A conclusion which he'd reached, by the
way, experimenting with pie pans and hot dogs.
When Kansas called, called Dr. Curly, Curly could've easily dismissed him.
What could a radio technician possibly know about solving and curing cancer?
But because Curly was willing to listen to the
ideas of a person who wasn't like him, he
may very well preside over a breakthrough in cancer.
Staying open to great ideas, no matter where
they come from, is an antidote to entitled thinking.
And a building block of innovation.
As you're thinking about disrupting yourself, think about, how do
you battle entitlement, and more specifically, where
did your last really good idea come from?
From someone just like you or
someone older, younger, different gender, different discipline.
If, in fact, that's the case, you are well on
your way to battling entitlement and laying the foundation for innovation.