As a disruptor, you are in search of a yet to be defined market.
This requires an emerging strategy, rather than conforming a detailed market
analysis and developing a step by step plan to achieve your goal.
Step forward, gather feedback, adopt accordingly.
Probably means you'll end up in a place
you hadn't anticipated, but you won't be alone.
70% of all successful new businesses end up in a place they
hadn't anticipated. A corporate example is Netflix.
They started out as a door-to-door DVD rental service.
Today, they're an Emmy Award winning content and streaming company.
Personal example is Sabina Noirs.
My friend, Sabina, started out as an engineer at Microsoft.
She was probably positioning herself for a coveting
VP role when she received positive feedback on
her leadership skills and decided to disrupt herself.
She asked to move to human resources, management allowed her to do so.
She stayed there for seven years and then
eventually left to start a leadership development consultancy.
This had never been her plan, her ambition,
but Sabina allowed herself and her strategy to emerge.
We all like to make plans for the future, but being disruptor requires
that we can't see the end from the beginning.
As you pursue an emergent strategy, it's important
to get the right metrics to measure your progress.
As I think about metrics, I like to take a page out of Billy Bean's playbook.
For those of you unfamiliar with Moneyball, it's
an account by the brilliant Michael Lewis, of how
the Oakland A's, one of the poorest teams in
Major League Baseball, became one of the most successful.
Because Billy Bean, the A's
general manager, was willing to recast how he measured performance.
Take pitcher Chad Bradford, for example. When the A's acquired him,
he had a relatively slow fastball of 81 to 85 miles per hour.
And because he looked funny when he pitched, the scouts discounted him.
Because Bean's foremost concern was assembling a winning team on a budget.
He was willing to look past conventional metrics.
Bradford gave up hits like any other pitcher, but his ground ball to
fly ratio was 5 to 1 versus an average of 1 to 1.
Ground balls don't get hit over the wall, they make singles, occassionally doubles.
The most important metric of success is actually how many times we show up.
According to the research, the odds
of a scientist writing a ground breaking paper, which is defined
as the number of citations in other works, is directly correlated, not
to how smart the scientist is.
But, to how many papers the scientist has written.
It's the equal odds rule.
If you want to write a groundbreaking paper, publish a lot.
If you want to learn how to jump to a new curve, jump.
Show up,
and keep showing up.
When you're disrupting yourself, if you don't know the right metrics, be
your own billy be and find the right metrics to measure you.
Now, as you think about this, think about two things.
First of all, what are the right metrics for you in your current disruption?
And number two, are you showing up?
Because if you'll keep showing up,
the disruption will eventually happen.