Disruption is by definition scary and lonely.


I was terrified when I disrupted myself, moving from banking
to equity research and then again when I left Wall Street.
After that initial rush wore off,
I felt a loss of identity.
I could no longer call people and say, Whitney Johnson, Merrill Lynch.
Now it was, Whitney Johnson. And some days, that wasn't enough.
There have also been times when the PE or
puke to excitement ratio, has been so uncomfortably high.
I feel like I'm on a thrill ride to zero cash flow.
This doesn't mean you shouldn't disrupt. It just means if it's scary and lonely,
you're probably on the right track.
And in fact, if you feel like you should try something
new and you don't, you'll probably die inside just a little.
Hence, what we call the Innovator's Dilemma.
Whether you innovate or not, you risk downward mobility.
The good news is, the market tends to reward disruptors
with a PE multiple of 30 times or more.
Because we are dealing with time delays, these stocks initially look expensive.
But because the odds of success are six
times higher and the revenue opportunity, 20 times greater.
Even at a 30 times multiple, ex-post, these stocks are a bargain.
Each of us is likely quite adapted doing
the math around the future when things are linear.
But neither business nor life is linear.
And ultimately what the brain craves, even requires,
is a delicious dopamine of the unpredictable.
Saul Kaplan, Chief Catalyst at the Business Innovation Factory shares.
My life has been about searching for the steep
learning curve because that's where I do my best work.
And when I do my best work,
money, stature, and happiness have always followed.
We give a lot of air time to building and buying disruptive companies.
Well, we should.
But, ultimately innovation begins on the inside.
We start at the low end of the curve then
shift gears that will allow us to accelerate into competence.
And then, when we approach mastery, we do what all greater disrupters do.
We walk straight into the innovators dilemma
and jump to a new curve because companies
can not disrupt, unless people do.