Discovering Ideas --> Tools for Visual Thinking
  SQVID
  Frameworks for showing

Developing Ideas --> Visual Thinking in Action

Selling Ideas  --> Create Effective Visuals

The 6 W's

1. Who and What - Things, people and roles

	What is going on around me, and where do I fit in?
	Who is in charge and who else is involved? Where does responsibility lie?
	
2. How much - Measuring and counting
	
	Do we have enough of X to last as long as we need?
	How much of X do we need to keep going? If we increase this over here, can we decrease that over there?
	
3. When - Scheduling and timing

	What comes first, and what comes next?
	We've got a lot of things to do: When are we going to do them all?
	
4. Where - Direction and how things fit together

	Where are we going now? Are we headed in the right direction, or should we be moving elsewhere?
	How do all these pieces fit together? What's most important and what matters less?
	
5. How - How things influence one another.

	What will happen if we do this? What about that?
	Can we alter the outcomes of a situation by altering our actions?
	
6. Why - Seeing the big picture

	What are we really doing and why? Is it the right thing, or should we be doing something different?
	If we need to change, what are our options? How can we decide which of those options are best?
	
Visual thinking is about how comfortable we are in thinking with our eyes.

The Visual Thinking Process

Looking

Process of taking in the visual information around us. It's about collecting inputs and making initial rough assessments of what's out there, so that we know how to respond. It involves scanning the environment in order to build an initial big picture.

Questions

- What is there? Is there a lot of it? What is not there?
- How far am I able to look? What are the edges and limits of my vision in this situation?
- What do I recognize right away, and what throws me off?
- Are the things in front of me what I expected to see? Can I get them rapidly or do I need to spend extra time figuring out what I'm looking at?

	
Activities

- Scan across the whole landscape. Build a big picture, note that there are forests and trees... and leaves, as well.
- Find the edges and determine which way is up. Establish the limits of our view and the fundamental coordinates of the data in front of us.
- Make an initial pass at screening out the noise, separate the visual wheat from the chaff.

Seeing

We are selecting which inputs are worth more detailed inspection. This is based on recognizing patterns. 

Questions

- Do I know what I'm seeing? Have I seen this before?
- Are any patterns emerging? Does anything in particular stand out?
- What can I take away from what I see - what patters, what priorities, what interactions - to help me make enough sense of this environment in order to make decisions about it?
- Do I have enough visual inputs collected to make sense of what I see, or do I need to go back and keep looking?

Activities

- Filter for relevance: Actively select those visual inputs worth another look and dismiss others. Then later go back and check again.
- Categorize and make distinctions: Separate the wheat into different categories by type.
- Notice patterns and clump creatively; identify visual commonalities among inputs and larger commonalities among categories.

Imagining

It is either the act of seeing with our eyes closed or the act of seeing something that isn't there.

Questions

- Where have I seen this before? Can I make any analogies to things I've seen in the past?
- Are there better ways to configure the patterns I see? Can I rearrange them to make more sense?
- Can I manipulate the patterns so that something invisible becomes visible?
- Is there a hidden framework connecting everything I saw? Can I use that framework as a place to put other things that I've seen?

Activities

- Close your eyes to see more: With all visual inputs fresh in the mind, look with your eyes closed and see if new connections emerge.
- Find analogies: Ask, 'Where have I seen this before?' and then imagine how analogous solutions might work in this new situation.
- Manipulate the patterns: Turn pictures upside down, flop them left to right, switch coordinates to turn them inside out. See if something new becomes visible.
- Alter the obvious: Push visual ideas by finding multiple ways to show the same thing.

Showing

We summarize what we've seen. Find the best framework for visually representing our ideas, nail things down on paper, point out what we imagined and then answer our audience's questions.

Questions

- Of all I've imagined, what are the three most important pictures that emerged - both for me and for my audience?
- What is the best way to visually convey my idea? Which visual framework will be most appropriate for sharing what I've seen?
- When I go back to what I originally looked at, does what I'm now showing still make sense?
- Say, 'This is what I saw.' Then ask your audience, 'Does it make sense to you? Do you see the same things, or do you see something different?

Activities

- Clarify your best ideas: Prioritize all visual ideas so that the most relevant come to the top.
- Nail things down: Pick the appropriate visual framework and get your ideas down on paper or up on the board.
- Cover all the W's: Make sure that who/what, how much, where and when are always visible; let how and why emerge as the visual punch line.

Four Rules to Develop Looking Skill

1. Collect everything we can to look at - the more the better (at least at first)
2. Have a place where we can lay out everything and really look at it all, side by side
	Everything looks different when we can see it all at once
3. Always define a basic coordinate system to give us clear orientation and position
4. Find ways to cut ruthlessly from everything our eyes bring in - we need to practice visual triage


Six Ways of Seeing

We start with looking at a problem. We need to see what's broken to fix it.

Seeing is the flip side of looking: Looking is the open process of collecting visual information, seeing is the narrowing process of putting the visual pieces together in order to make sense of them. Looking is collecting; seeing is selecting and identifying patterns. And really good seeing is even more than just pattern recognition; good seeing is problem recognition.

Who / What + How Many + Where + When = How

Our eyes visually deduce how by observing the interactions of the first four W's.

1. Look over all the materials, see the who and the what of the Click Plan marketplace.
	Who sells and who buys the digital goods?
	What formats are sold and what unique benefits are realized?
	
2. See how much and how many.
	How many products can be listed? How much time does it take to go live?
	How many affiliates can promote the products? How much bandwidth can they use?

3. See the where.
	Geographically, where are the merchants located?
	Conceptually, where do the Click Plan features overlap?
	
4. See the when.
	When can the merchants start selling?
	In what sequence do the merchants get onboarded?
	
5. See the how.
	How does the collaborators relate to another; how do they fit together?
	How are the products sold? Blog, Twitter, Facebook page?

6. See the why
	Why is Click Plan necessary? Why sell on Click Plan marketplace?
	Why get insights? Why test? Why track? Why make changes?

As you see these things, map them on the whiteboard according to the 6 W's categories. 

The Click Plan Marketplace as Seen According to the 6 W's

Picture goes here.

SQVID - Visual Imagination Activation Tool

A series of five questions that we walk our initial idea through in order to bring it to visual clarity and to refine its focus - both according to what's most important to us and our audience. This tool helps us to imagine what visual messages we'd like to convey before we start worrying about which picture we're going to draw.

Five SQVID Questions Are : Do I want to Show

S : Simple vs Elaborate
Q : Quality vs Quantity
V : Vision vs Execution
I : Individual Attributes vs Comparison
D : Delta (Change) vs Status Quo

There are two ways to use this tool. The first is to walk through the five questions in order and think of how we could visually describe our idea according to each option: a simple view or an elaborate view, a qualitative view or a quantitative view, etc. Then, on paper, draw out what each view might look like.

By walking our idea through the five questions and coming up with a visual description for each end, we force our visual system to come up with at least ten different views. This generates many ways to visually represent our idea and gives us many options to pick which one to show.

The second way is driven by our anticipated audience's expectations. We use the tool like a graphic visualizer, identifying which overall settings are most useful to our audience, regardless of the details of what we're going to describe. For example, for project managers we give quantitative, execution-oriented visuals but for the press we give simple visionary representations.

By setting the graphic equalizer sliders toward the views we think will be most relevant to our audience, we provide focus on which type of picture will be best to show them.

We fully activate both the left and right sides of our brain. 

Simple Vs Elaborate

Something can be both complex and simple at the same time. The real goal of visual thinking is to make the complex understandable by making it visible - not by making it simple. We use simple or elaborate picture based on the audience and their familiarity with the subject.

Qualitative vs Quantitative

You could combine qualitative and quantitative information to create visuals.

Vision vs Execution

The opposite of the 'where we are going' statement of vision is the 'how we are going to get there, step-by-step process' chart. Gantt chart shows how we're going to get there.

Individual vs Comparison

The Way Things Are vs The Way They Could Be

Sketch out the status quo.
Create a view of the perfect world.
On the second pass of 'what might be', get to a realistic solution.

SQVID Example

1. Pick an idea
2. Draw a circle and give it a name
	Get a stack of six sheets of blank paper and a black pen. On the first sheet, draw a circle in the center of the page.
	Now give your idea a name. It could be descriptive or abstract. Don't spend too much time on selecting the name. 
	Write your idea's name in the center of the circle and write the SQVID letters below it.
3. Create your SQVID pages
 	On each of the five remaining pages, write the work that corresponds to the SQVID letter at the upper left, and the opposite word on the lower left. When you are finished, you should have five sheets with one set of two words written on each.
	Simple-Elaborate
	Qualitative-Quantitative
	Vision-Execution
	Individual-Comparison
	Change-Status quo
4. Fill out your SQVID
	On each of the five sheets, make a quick sketch of how you might visually represent your idea according to each word. Complete a simple set of sketches for each sheet.

Frameworks for Showing

There are three steps to show : 
1. Select the right framework
2. Use that framework to create the picture
3. Explain the picture


	
	





















	