Adding Flavors to Your Speech

Flavor 1 : Incorporation of analogies, examples and stories. 
Flavor 2 : Achieving a personal connection with the audience.
Flavor 3 : Humor

When you want to make a segment of your presentation memorable, consider using flavor 1.
Warm and personal atmosphere : Make sure that everyone in the audience understand. Eye contact, humbleness, passion for having the audience understand serves to make connections with the audience.

Targeting the Audience

As you prepare the presentation point by point, you continually ask yourself two questions:

1. Will the audience understand these points?
2. Will the audience be interested in these points?

Presentations to Inform

Tell them what you're going to tell them, tell them, and tell them what you told them serves.

Multipurpose Presentations

You often want the students to discover the information on their own, because by discovering the material the students are much more likely to retain the material.

How do you eliminate filler phrases from your speech? Learn what filler phrases you say. Your subconscious will work to eliminate them from your speech.

Structure : The Strategy You Choose

Structure comprises the organization of the major points, the transitions between those points, the depth that the presenter achieves, and the emphasis of details. Begin at a depth that orients the entire audience. Provide background information. Map the presentation for the audience. Tell the audience about the upcoming sections and their length. Signal transitions between major parts of a presentation. Signal topic transitions with phrases in speech, changes in slides or pauses in delivery.

The beginning shows the big picture of the presentation and then focuses everyone's attention to the particular topic.

The middle then discusses the topic in a logical fashion. Logical strategy could be chronological, spatial etc (refer Back of the Napkin book) 

In the ending, analyze the work from an overall perspective. This analysis usually contains a summary of the most important details of the work. It often provies closure to the presentation: a set of recommendations for the work or examination of how the work presented in the presentation's middle affects the big picture presented in the beginning.

Transitions

The first major transition occurs between the introduction and the middle of the presentation. The middle is broken into 2, 3 or 4 parallel sections. Transitions occur between the sections. A final transition would occur between the end of the middle and the conclusion. 

Depth of Topics

You have to access what the audience already knows about the subject and begin your discussion at that level. You have to account for how much the audience needs to learn. You have to pick and choose details.

Depth is interwoven with scope, which consists of the boundaries of the presentations. How broad a topic does the speaker address? The broader the scope the less the depth that the speaker can achieve and more difficult it becomes to satisfy the audience. Broad scope presentation is more challenging and the speaker has to think long and hard about the presentation's structure. Slides must match the level of depth of the speech. 

Emphasis

Repetition, illustration and placement are the different ways to emphasize details. One key place for emphasis in a presentation is the beginning. Use the beginning of a presentation to say something important: to define the scope of your presentation, to show the audience the importance of the work and to map in a memorable way the path of the presentation.

You can help maintain a higher level of retention for the audience if the audience sees the logical path that you have chosen to explain your work. This path might be chronological, spatial or it might break down the presentation topic into parallel divisions.

Number of divisions in the path should not be large. People remember groups of twos, threes and fours. 

The ending is also a good opportunity for emphasis. Leave the conclusion slide projected during the presentation's questions period. Conclusion slide summarizes the presentation's main results.

Beginning

Make the beginning as clear as possible. What is the presentation about? Why is the presentation important? What knowledge is needed to understand the presentation? How will the presentation be arranged?

A strong beginning to a presentation answers the questions:

1. What exactly is the subject?
2. Why is this subject important?
3. What background is needed to understand the subject?
4. In what order will the subject be presented?

The beginning should target the widest possible audience. For a 60 minute talk, you can spend 10 minutes on the introduction.

What is the presentation about?

The speaker's abilities to emphasize details through the voice's loundness and cadence provide a useful perspective of those details for the audience. Do not overwhelm the audience with too much information. Title slides must have the title, name of the speaker and affiliation of speaker. Other information to include are key image to orient the audience, date, logo. For a slide to be effective, it should remain on the screen for at least 60 seconds. 

Why is the Subject Important?

Explain the importance of your presentation before moving into the middle of the presentation. Often, the importance related to money, safety, health or the environment. Often, stating the importance of a subject involves grounding the problem in a specific example. 

What Background is Needed to Understand the Subject?

Sometimes, the time limit of the presentation provides you a few options. In such cases, state up front what you are assuming that the audience knows. Speaker does not have to give the audience all of the necessary background in the introduction of the presentation.

Another possibility is to provide background as the audience needs it during the presentation. It is acceptable to label a background topic as a separate section as long as the audience can see the relationship of that section to the remainder of the talk.

In What Order Will the Subject be Presented?

In answering this question of how the details will be presented, the presenter reveals in essence the organization of the presentation. Clean and memorable map of the organization gives the audience a good idea at any point in the presentation about how much has been covered and how much further the presenter has to go.

Audience can get lost when the presentation contains gaps in logic. A second instance occurs when the presenter does not clue in listeners about a major change of course in a presentation. A third instance occurs when the presenter drowns the audience in detail. 

Advantages of making a presentation is that you receive feedback from the audience about your work. If you are stuck on a problem, presenting a 'straw-man' solution to an audience could trigger a suggestion from the audience that would help you solve the problem. You could view presentations as tests for ideas.

The transitions occur on two different levels. On the first level are the transitions between the beginning and the middle and between the middle and the ending. A second level of transitions occurs between each segment of the middle. Make clear the transitions between each division of the middle.

 State the transition explicitly: 'That concludes what I wanted to say about X. Now I will consider Y' For the transition between the middle and the ending, the speaker can use phrases such as 'in summary' or 'to conclude this presentation'. An additional way to make transitions between segments of a presentation is a change in slides. 
 
 Delivery also provides ways to signal a transition between sections of a presentation. One signal is pause. Another signal is the raising or lowering of voice when beginning a new section. 
 
 Drowing the Audience in Detail
 
 For effective presentation don't present everything about your work. Select those details that allow the audience to understand the work and leave out details that the audience does not need. Sort details. Provide a heirarchy of details so that the audience knows which details to hang onto and which details to ignore in case they are overwhelmed.
 
 Quickly bring the audience from the general to the specific without leading the audience on unnecessary side paths. People remember lists of 2s, 3s and 4s. Write a summary of the essentials on the blackboard. Find a way to let the audience know which details are most important. One way is repetition: mentioning the detail in the beginning, repeating it in the middle and then repeating a second time at the end. Third way to emphasize information is in the delivery: pausing before an important point; raising or lowering the voice. 
 
Visual Aids

The slides must provide a perspective on the information that could not be achieved with simple speech. Show images that are too complicated to explain with words. Images can also emphasize key results. 

Opportunity to Improve Delivery

One of the best ways is to have colleages critique your presentation. These critiques should not only mention those aspects that are weak but also discuss what aspects of delivery were strong (use the critique sheet : Appendix A Checklist)

Video tape your presentation and review with a critical eye. 

Preparation

Think through the outline and plan how each lecture fit with the other parts. Time is needed to understand the content well enough to organize it in a fashion that is readily comprehended by the audience. Time is also needed to gather the important images, to graph the important results and to incorporate those images and graphs into a set of well-designed slides. Time is needed to rehearse so that you can find the right words to explain the difficult concepts and to smooth the transitions between points. 

Paying Attention to the Time

Presentation that truly engages the audience - three ingredients have to be present. First, the speaker must understand the subject. The speaker is not expected to know everything about the subject, but what the speaker imparts has to be worth the audience's time. A second essential ingredient is that the speaker must have a keen awareness of the audience: what they know about the subject and why they have attended. The third essential ingredient is that the speaker show a genuine enthusiasm for the subject. 

