Assert yourself that there must be a simpler way. Push yourself. Creative ways to deliver complicated concepts in simple ways.

No one is very smart. We think in small steps. No one can concentrate perfectly. Our minds are filled with lot of things that depletes . Limited resources of the mind, it's knowledge base.

Really smart people keep everything simple. 

3 Principles
Seduction
If it's interesting make an interesting claim. Make a promise. If you think something is great, tell people why.
Arouse curiosity
Ask questions 

Ambition
Distill the interesting material
Identify the key points
Get feedback

Accessibility
Be redundant, but don't repeat yourself. Use examples.
Can you make it understandable to a child?
Find the best possible examples. That shows all the misconceptions.
Use different representations. Spell out the correspondence. Visual and Algebraic representation. Listen to both. Take in both representations even if you are stronger in one. If you understand the relationship between both representation, you can translate from one representation to the other. If someone gives you a weaker representation you can translate it into your stronger representation.

Ask yourself: Do I really understand that? Is there a better way?
Can you show me an example? Become a expert learner.

Look and Cook books. Demystified by picture.

Unrelentingly ambitious
No compromise

No sacrifice of content
Even a child can understand it

What are the key points?
What is our best stuff?
Tried it in the classroom? With feedback find out what people need. Put it together in a way that anyone can understand.

Master the material.
What do they like? What do they know?
Utility to children is the golden standard.

I aspire to teach math with the same compelling simplicity of look and cook




Thinking in little steps
Digressions
Limited Knowledge-base
Keep Everything Simple
In a disciplined way, step-by-step. 
Can you eliminate and still make it understandable.


Introduction
Thinking Simply
Three Principles [Skip]
Multiple Representations
Assess Your Own Understanding
The Gold Standard [Skip]
Conclusion [Skip]